# FedID CG call notes - 7 March 2022 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Kaan Icer

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s) - Kaan

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) and the [<u>W3C Community Contributor License Agreement</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

<!-- -->

-   [<u>Community Group Report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit)

    -   Overview - Threat Model for Federated Identity

    -   Use Cases

-   Next Steps for the CG

    -   Time to start defining the problem space for link decoration and bounce tracking?

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Heather: Community Group report is planned to be out by the end of
March; please keep offering feedback!

Kris: Presenting
<img src="media/image1.png" style="width:0.16667in;height:0.16667in" />[<u>https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7\_d\_X8h1\_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf\_s70ycYj20/edit?usp=sharing</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit?usp=sharing)

We want get more explicit about FedID

Started with listing the Privacy and Payment threat model

The idea was to gather threats and Web features combined.

Looking for feedback on if it is this useful

Vittorio:

Thanks for putting this together, however I’m confused on:
specifications have privacy and security sections. What are we including
here? The goal is to make sure Fed ID keeps working and not interrupted.
I’m not sure if this room the right place?

Kris: I was trying to get, we focus threat model that is specific for
FedID. This doc talks about how we respond to threat, not to action.

Sam Goto: The more we paraphrase independently thebetter. Very
supportive of the formation of a threat model. We also have in our spec
an (hopefully consistent) interpretation of the Privacy threat model of
FedCM (which is more federation specific)

The other point, priv threat model of the specific protocols vs user
agent models perhaps. There is major component of abuse.

For example, cookies, can be abused.

I think you are missing the abuse in that threat model

Kris: I agree that it can be called out. Priv concerns are difficult
since like unwanted tracking. When it really abuse and when it is not,
is the thing I’m trying to tackle here.

Comparison here between FedID and ping threat model.

Heather: There is priv threat model. We can summarize with priv
concerns., There are other threats. A table like more specific to more
priv specific to use (that are not covered).

Sam W: Ping threat model doc is not finished. There is a new doc in the
Tag group which could be more helpful.

https://w3ctag.github.io/privacy-principles/

Sam Goto: Agree with Sam W. For abuse, the attacker, what are their
motivation (with having an tracker hat) and what are the mitigations?.

Kris: I will add in attackers' abuse in identity federation threats.
Also, take out the ping aspect. Do a more traditional threat model.

Vittorio: The possibility of a tracker posing as an IdP and using
whatever mitigation measures we put in place is the threat that needs to
be highlighted across the board IMO.

Heather: Switching to the use cases: Tim

Tim: Still working on it. Merged Session management.

Heather: In the terminology section, need to add more here for the terms
for separate communities.

Kris: Added an image for the data flow. If those help or issues, let me
know (specifically to Tim)

Heather: We are done with the CG report.

We are looking for how to preserve FedID use cases.

3pcd is the lowest hanging fruit.

We have FedCM solve some use cases, or give options.

Is it the time to look for other things? Link decoration, bounce
tracing?

Sam Goto: We take 3pcd is both important and urgent, happening in short
term ( couple years is short term in WP)

Navigational tracking, important but not as urgent, but different
browsers have different sense of urgency.

Priv Threat model, attackers go to the weakest link. Safari and Firefox
may have higher urgency for navigational tracking, since they are
already block third party cookies in some form.

It’s important but not as urgent to us (compared to the deprecation of
third party cookies). For timing perspective

70% our time is for 3pcd

Navigational tracking fell into the 20% -10% buckets

We should talk about it considering the time spent.

Kris: LD is an issue, redirects are problematic. We do need to focus on
FPS. FedID use cases are not in the other proposals. We need to discuss
them and get feedback.

Vittorio: We should first have a good grasp of the problem before
talking about mitigation.

Sam Goto: We can bring Jeffrey here when needed. For Vittorio’s comment:
As a community we could say there will be no prob during 3pcd, that
sounds wonderful. We hear things will break after 3pcd. Intention is to
have fewer things break.

Heather: Feedback Google looking for is actual testing of the code if
FedCM works; several architects, however, look at the architecture and
say they aren’t going to put effort into testing the code because they
can see it doesn’t meet their need. They aren’t going to offer the
feedback in the form Google is requiring. Google isn’t going to get what
they need.

Vittorio: Even if FedCM is considered as a solution, sign out will
continue as a problem. It was more a unit test (last week’s experience
of Aachim). I’m not saying nothing breaks. We need to give people
alternatives.

Kris: Front channel breaks but the back-channel

Let’s get answers that users cans understand and less trying to force
them on a specific path

Sam Goto: We are trying to expose as many as option we can for the
agents involved.

We are collectors of proposals. And we analyze them. If back-channel
logout is an option, that’s sounds great, we should be in the business
of collecting as many options we can.

Permission prompts during the front channel logout is not an option we
discarded, but we gathered enough evidence that convinced us that that’s
not where we should start.

Forming counter-proposals is a good practice. We can see the trade offs.

Heather: Due to daylight saving time, please double check where/when the
call is in your calendar.



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, Co-chair)

-   dan sinclair (Google; Chrome)

-   Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0\|OKTA)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Jaime Perez (Yahoo)

-   Yi Gu (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   Kaan Icer (Google)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google)

-   Matthew Liu (The Washington Post)

-   Brian Campbell

-   David Hübner (DAASI International)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Jyrki Lauronen (Sanoma Media Finland)

-   Brett Bieber (University of Nebraska)

-   Sam Goto (Google)
