# FedID CG call notes - 11 July 2022 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google)

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   Upcoming meetings: CG meetings @ TPAC = 12 and 13 September, 10:30-12:30 PT

-   FedCM Status

-   [<u>Use Case Tree</u>](https://gitmind.com/app/flowchart/91b11838886) and [<u>third-party cookie mitigation table</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Third-party-cookie-mitigations) updates

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Heather: Planning CG meetings at TPAC will likely be Sep 12 - 13
[<u>https://www.w3.org/2022/09/TPAC/</u>](https://www.w3.org/2022/09/TPAC/)

Heather: Kris has put up a flow chart about the use case tree

Kris: based on feedback, tried to make it more developer focused, and
make it more based on RP and IDP actions. Blue squares are what the user
sees in the browser, red ones are IDP. Using OIDC/OAuth2. There may be
more areas where decisions need to be put. Did one for authorization,
one for the hybrid/implicit flow. Also did one for SAML. Want to ask
folks if they think that this is understandable, i.e. can developers
actually follow this? Does this need more direction, or maybe highlight
the use-cases / context with the table? Do not want to make this
overwhelming with too much information.

Vittorio: Still a bit confused about the goal. Heather stated that the
goal would be to add a visual. Right now this feels a bit like a mix.
Feels like there is room for more details, from a developer perspective.
But also need to give more details about the why: what are you trying to
solve. So we’re mixing the things developers need to do with our
mediation. That might have a less crisp signal-to-noise ratio.

Kris: I think that if I add a lot of information then it would be hard
to follow. But I do think that is an issue. Login Status API, for
example, is meant to just query the browser if you’ve logged before, but
does not necessarily mean you are

Tim: also valuable to have one very busy version that can be spinned off
into smaller ones. They help us ask: hey browser vendors, how do we
solve this?

Kris: ok, maybe I can take a stab at putting up all of this information,
even if that’s not the one we end up presenting. We can split up
information.

Ben: agree that it sounds reasonable to have a busier version.

Kris: I’ll go into more detail about what developers should be doing,
for both the RP and IDP.

Peter G: if you go down a little bit, there is a question about RP and
IDP being from the same organization. The only difference I see is the
purple box 5 vs 6. My question: do you think there will be more
differences with the yes/no answer?

Kris: Probably yes. I think we want to get feedback. Really ownership is
about the cross-domain stuff. Account picker at the top: relying on
storage access API or something like that to answer some of the
scenarios.

George: was going to add a pre-state. Has this user interacted with me
in the past, and if so then what IDP did they interact with? This is
often a state which we track separately from “do they have an active
session”? You could have that in the same artifact, but semantically
this is a different question.

Vittorio: sign-in using authorization code is not affected by 3p
cookies. If one of the goals is to determine where to apply
remediations, we should point out which parts of the flows are
problematic.

Kris: I was not thinking about this being specific to 3p cookies.

Vittorio: But I do think we want these extra details. Who has the
account? If it is RP, then you do not need a lot of this machinery.

Kris: I started all of this from the login tree, but there are of course
other flows. Once we have these flows looking pretty good, I can focus
on getting other flows to match that format.

Heather: would be good to present to Privacy CG since a lot of these
projects are under their purview. Also, I do see Login Status as
something I would use here but not sure what for. Lastly, for the FedCM
folks at Google, did we get it right that this is the only place where
FedCM might be applicable, at the account picker page?

Kris: my take is that we’ve been focusing on 3p cookies, but there are
other issues that we are not addressing per se.

Heather: would it be useful to have a special star, where we have a
problem and there are no solutions for it?

Sam: have not looked at the diagram lately, but I think it is fair and
deliberate that FedCM has a narrow scope. It is not meant to be applied
everywhere, by design. I’ll take a look to make sure we are on the right
part of the diagram. I don’t see the front channel logout part.

Kris: There would be a different tree for that. With the Login Status
API: that is from Apple. What is Google thinking about that? As we go
through the flow, we need to figure out what the right answers are.

Sam: Yes, I do believe that the goal of the group is to come up with
answers to each of the specifics of the diagram. Specifically about the
parts of the diagram which have no good solutions.

Tim: First time I heard someone from Google say that FedCM is a solution
when StorageAccess cannot fix it. So is Google in favor of that now?

Sam: Cannot speak about that. Maybe Khaustuba / Johann.

Kris: Is there anyone at Google that handles all of it? I.e. the end to
end. And not just Chrome, but across all browsers.

Sam: No. For example FPS moving a lot.

Tim: Problem is that we get mixed signals on StorageAccess. Your API is
making assumptions about these other APIs.

Sam: Chrome has recently formed some standards positions on GitHub so we
can discuss that over there hopefully. FWIW I personally believe FPS and
RequestStorageAccess both represent something that is good for the web.

Tim: Hope you are evangelizing that. First time I heard someone from
Google say that.

Kris: My personal opinion is that the process has been very particular
about adding new functionality and new features. Not going after
federated login as a process, because that is not how historically this
has been approached. Privacy needs more end-to-end answers and less
specific APIs. Need to attack these more as an overall problem.

Sam: Generally agree with you. I think that is the goal of this CG.

Kris: We can bring the knowledge, but if we can’t determine what happens
then what’s the point?

George: Wondering the scope of what FedCM is talking about. When we
started, I thought that the scope is how do we support the use-case of
one-click sign-up in a way that anyone can use the mechanism, plus front
channel logout. Those were the core capabilities broken by 3PC. It
sounds like the scope has increased. Nothing wrong with that, but if
it’s not clear in the documentation… Sometimes we focus on one
particular thing because it is small and implementable, but then the big
picture gets lost. End up with mutually exclusive solutions, painful to
back up.

Heather: For FedCM, the scope is a bit of a moving target.

George: Ok, but we solve the scope, then recharter. Scope needs to be
clear.

Sam: I believe what you said and what Heather said is both correct.
FedCM is currently targeting the social widgets and front channel
logout, which break with removal of 3PC. We don’t know how to solve link
decoration or bounce tracking. Our API has been running on OTs, so
Heather is also correct: developers might ask us to extend the API in
certain ways, but we have enumerated and collected how they’d like us to
extend the API.

George: I think the piece where we’re fuzzy is that based on developer
feedback there was a new scope being tackled.

Sam: FWIW it’s not just feedback from developers, also browser vendors.
Privacy concerns, multi-IDP. All of this is on the GitHub issues.

George: For those people who have hours to engage, I agree that the data
is there. For those that are trying to catch up, it is a little
daunting. Sometimes there is not a long enough block in my schedule to
process, so summarization is helpful.

Sam: Agreed, and I think what I presented weeks ago was an enumeration
of feedback we got. It was not a commitment to implement all of that.

Heather: Normally when something is a CG work item, the decision to say:
we got this feedback, should this be in scope? This becomes a CG
conversation, not just an internal conversation within Google. It sounds
like Google is moving ahead with what they need to do, but you’re
telling us about it just to get some feedback. Is that appropriate, or
should we push for getting consensus within CG before changing the
scope?

Sam: Agree. One of the tensions is that a lot of the developers that are
implementing the FedCM API are not coming to this group. We hear
feedback from them, as well as from browser vendors. We should be
transparent: we plan to keep prioritizing RP,IDP, browser vendor
feedback on top of anything else. We’d like to bring them here.

Heather: One of the things we plan to do on TPAC: by then we should be
solid with our flows. I think that should feed into the recharter
conversation.

Vittorio: Want to go a bit farther: the reason I’m spending a lot of
time in the group is that I believe in the mission in the charter. It’s
still a problem and not getting any better. The current charter is the
right one. Having these features is not necessarily compatible with our
mission. You build your feature and have complete autonomy, but maybe it
shouldn’t be a work item. Not saying this is the case right now, but
could be. So: do we think the current situation is to the advantage of
both groups (keeping FedCM here)?

Heather: encourage folks to take another read at the charter. Also read
through FedCM’s README and some of the issues there. We have a lot of
different models in front of us. We may become a CG that actively does
outreach to make sure the different projects receive feedback.

 

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, Co-chair)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (google)

-   Peter Kotwicz (Google)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0 \| Okta)

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Dani Katzman (Cross River)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Ben VanderSloot (Mozilla)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)
