-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Sam Weiler & Achim

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/cceb9fe7-9d35-4041-a31f-d47b7757d64b/20220207T080000</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/cceb9fe7-9d35-4041-a31f-d47b7757d64b/20220207T080000)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s)? Sam, Achim

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) and the [<u>W3C Community Contributor License Agreement</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

Pre-Reading
---------------

-   [<u>"Intent to Explain"</u>](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/11/intent-to-explain-demystifying-blink.html) (video, this is easy to read but unofficial)

-   [<u>"The Blink Launch Process"</u>](https://www.chromium.org/blink/launching-features) (this is hard to read but official)

-   [<u>TPAC 2021: Introduction to FedCM</u>](https://watch.videodelivery.net/29bab61e04e8cabf1517e5885c9fe4cf)

-   [<u>FedCM HOWTO</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/explainer/HOWTO.md)

-   [<u>FedCM Specification</u>](https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/)

Agenda - Working Session
----------------------------

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)?

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   Work Item - FedCM next steps (see pre-reading)

    -   The Blink Launch Process

    -   The Privacy Sandbox [<u>Tmelines</u>](https://privacysandbox.com/timeline/)

    -   FedCM's Dev Trials

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Heather: CLA and CEPC reminder. Prereads… FedCM is our only work
product. Sam Goto and Dan are going to talk to us re: next steps.

Sam Weiler: slides available?

Sam Goto: after the fact, yes. This is a followup re: our latest FedCM
thinking. You’ve seen variations in the spec. We’re coming to the
“when”; I’ll skim through the why/what/who, since you’ve likely seen
them. If you’ve not seen this before, see TPAC2020 session for “why”,
see TPAC2021 for “what”. We think Federated Identity is better than
per-site usernames/PWs. Problems: id fed was built on low-level
primitives, which, by accident, also enable per-site tracking - we call
this a “classification problem”. Many things break, but looking at 3rd
party cookie deprecation first, since we think it’s tractable. It’s a
good thing that few things break when 3rd party cookies go away. This
will help us build foundation to deal with bigger problems. Found 3
classes of solns recurring: permission, mediation, delegation.
Delegation is easy to ignore since it’s backward-incompatible. We
prototyped both permission and mediation; experiments point us to
mediation. It’s deployable by IDPs, costs are in the right places (more
on the IDPs, less on RPs). Cons: expressivity, …

Mock-ups that limit linking identity… APIs are deliberately designed to
be high-level, and purpose-specific, not general-purpose. \[deferring
question to end, to focus on the “when”.\]

There’s a spec in the FedCM repo; it’s often out of date.

When. Look at privacysandbox.com - it’s authoritative. It shows a table
of all APIs Google is working on. There is a critical stage of testing.
Then “ready for adoption”. In 3Q2023, transition period w/ 3p cookies
deprecated. We are 1 out of more than 20 API proposals in the privacy
sandbox. FPS, Fenced Frames, CHIPS are perhaps most interesting to this
group. \[See slide re: past timeline\] We’re expecting to enter Origin
Trials, beginning 2Q2022, when devs can try these APIs as opt-ins in
Chrome stable. I think of Origin Trials as last calls for comment. This
is how Chrome announces how they’re going to get something out the door.
1-2 quarters for feedback. If we succeed, ready in 3Q2022, so we have a
whole year for adoption.

“Origin Trials” are a major checkpoint for chrome. Before this, things
are behind flags. Now in front of real users. Have to meet a production
bar. This gets announced to ecosystem are the Intent process.

Zooming into 2022, we’re starting to count dates. Since Chrome is not on
a server, it has an inconvenient release schedule. It takes 1-1.5 mo. to
get to users. At this stage in game, things are harder to react to.

Chrome has milestones, which are chrome versions. Aiming at … cut 17
March, released in April. Then M105 for launch, 30 August.

We could use IDP and RP input during the origin trial. We’re looking for
a plausible path, looking for an interoperable web.

Achim taking over as scribe.

Things won’t be perfect, no silver bullet found - expect bumps. Join
experiments and co-design as well counter proposals.

George: Thanks for the timeline, super helpful. FedCM is looking for
issues with 3p deprecation - only looking at mediation, anybody that
wants to logout must use mediation, which also changes the login
scenario. Account chooser makes a lot of sense, but the rest of the
flows stay the same. For Logout Scenarios we have no solution that is
backward compatible. What does that imply going forward, looking for
long term effect. In case redirects get into the picture

Sam Goto: API today - backward compatible with RPs and Users (no
changes), but allow us to change IDPs. Front Channel logout is also
covered, within FedCM scope. It's not perfect (mediation) compared to
permission. What to expect - exposing APIs that IDPs can call, work with
the Microsoft teams - JS API Call an IDP can make, which allows users to
prompt for permissions, so the IDP can later do front channel logout. If
the user is accepting, the IDP in its Top Level Frame can call an API
passing an array of RPs to logout (get requests to them).

George Fletcher - Looking at compatibility w.r.t to the specification
(OIDC, SAML) - these changes are not compatible in that sense. Good to
add that to the documentation - Permission, what is the user agreeing
to? 1p sets might help in the Enterprise (no choice for users to avoid
logout), challenging the user might be negative w.r.t. Security. How
does the community provide feedback to the process? A bit like FloC,
wasn’t the right answer, providing feedback and changing.

Sam Goto: Original Trails have a feedback mechanism - Feedback in terms
of counter proposals is best. Lots of opportunity to give feedback, both
formal and informal. At a point all obvious choices have been analyzed.
Counterproposals could lead to points that might have been missed thus
far.

FedCM is a last resort fallback, if nobody uses it in context of 3p
deprecation we fine. Everything that can be solved with 1p Sets, Fenced
Frames, …. should be done with them. Spectrum of choices, FedCM is part
of that

Kris Chapman: Wondering about coordination and timeline. Assuming there
is no 3P depreciation before behavioral advertising is addressed.
Timeline might be pushed if there are delays over there? If another API
change changes the 3p depreciation timeline, what is the effect on
FedCM, how is that coordinated?

Sam Goto: I don't know, I can only point you to the privacysandbox.com
website, that is the authoritative source. Timeline changes are not
expected to affect FedCM, we know how it breaks (Federation) and are
fond of FedCM as a solution. We won’t be holding back depreciation; our
timeline won’t change if the overall timeline changes.

Sam Weiler: This is not a working group, we are not doing standards
here. In the standards process, technology tends to be pushed around. If
Original Trials is last call, that means it needs to be in a working
group now. If you're not moving it it's dismissive of the process for
standardization.

Overservation from browser workshop in fall 2019 - most of them were
already blocking 3pc and there are workarounds in place from other
browsers. No participation from other browsers, you need to bring them
in.

Heather - during PrivacyCG others said they are waiting for legal
approval to join a new CG - Mozilla is a member. Being in a working
group is definitely a challenge, expected consensus on the CG, but there
are so many open questions. Looking for room to experiment still, there
needs to be a balance for being able to experiment to gain consensus.

Sam Goto - We ran a workshop with big IDPs last year, bad not to have
all of them here, but out of our control. Don't disagree with you
overall and will come back with how processing from a chrome process
(mental model to standards track) could be better framed in terms of the
standards track. Will Ask Chris ?? to come to talk about that.

Sam Weiler: You observed that once things go to production - in Origin
Trials - it becomes harder to change things. How do you expect a WG to
make changes after that point?

Sam Goto - Change becomes harder - one day to the other on canary - 1.5
month in original trial. Not conflicted, Chris will come and get a
better view on this.

Heather Flanagan - on a previous call we made clear that you can’t think
of RP, IDPs and use completely separate things. Change will affect all
of them.

Lee Graber - Only Chrome is here, Chips is an absolute requirement to
move forward. We can tell people not to use Safari, but not not to use
iOS. Frustrating not to have the other browsers present. Can we change
3pc to 3pc tracking cookies in the presentation. We depend on the fact
that we will be able to scope our cookies w.r.t the embedding context.

Intermediary layers as an RP, hosted on the Cloud. Load Balancers sit
between us and the client (and use cookies). Load Balancer Cookies need
to be available, if really hard for them to still work without. Let's
not forget this layer.

Sam Goto: Browser Vendors missing is a major point. Also frustrated by
the lack of participation. Deployment topology, lots of tricks, the more
we can learn the better.

General Library of Useful Reading

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)

-   [<u>Authentication vs Federation vs SSO</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/authentication-vs-federation-vs-sso-9586b06b1380)

-   [<u>Keeping Your APIs Secure for Multiple User Types</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/keeping-your-apis-secure-for-multiple-user-types-d5c627793c4c)

-   [<u>OAuth Security Workshop 2021 session on Identity Flows and Browsers</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2021/OSW2021-Identity_vs_Browser.pdf)


Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, Co-chair)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, Chair)

-   Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation)

-   George Fletcher (Capital One)

-   dan sinclair (Google)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Lee Graber (Tableau/Salesforce)

-   Kiran Gopinath (Mearca)

-   Abhinav Lele (Shopify)

-   Dmitry Shalashov (Relap.io // VK)

-   Kaan Icer (Google)

-   Matthew Liu (The Washington Post)

-   Brock Allen (Duende Software)

-   Sander Engelberts (OCLC)

-   Jaime Perez (Yahoo)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI International)

-   Yi Gu (Google)

-   Peter KH (Google)

-   Rohey

-   Nicolas Pena Moreno (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft, Co-chair)

-   Kai Lehman

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)
