# FedID CG call (Atlantic), 23 May 2022

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Heather

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Heather

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

    -   Upcoming meetings of Interest

        -   [<u>W3C TPAC</u>](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2022) September 12-16 (Vancouver, BC)

    -   Call on Monday, 30 May 2022?

-   Work Item Update

    -   FedCM

-   [<u>Draft report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit) and [<u>third-party cookie mitigation table</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Third-party-cookie-mitigations) updates

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Administrivia
-------------

-   Upcoming meetings of Interest

    -   [<u>W3C TPAC</u>](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2022) September 12-16 (Vancouver, BC) - please let Heather know if you are interested in attending a f2f; submission to the W3C due 31 May.

<!-- -->

-   Call on Monday, 30 May 2022? HF to send a query to the slack channel to see who is available for a call

Work Item Update
----------------

-   FedCM -

    -   Michael: origin trial for android is going so far, so good. Found issues with content security policy (fixed in 103, which will be stable next month). 103 will also include desktop

-   [<u>Draft report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit) and [<u>third-party cookie mitigation table</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/wiki/Third-party-cookie-mitigations) updates

    -   Kris: small working group last week. Sam Goto was concerned that
  the lines are blurred between what Google’s considering versus
  the problem more broadly. Kris is working on that text to
  generalize it a bit, leaving the details re: Google’s thoughts
  in the FedCM work item section. Also want to have more options
  to solve different use cases. Sam added text to the table in
  the bottom re: initiatives that are going on. Kris has split
  that table between the privacy proposals and where they’re
  being discussed, and what’s more generic. We do need more
  information on the generic options. With the latest round of
  updates, should be good to post officially as a **draft**
  online.

    -   Vittorio: suggestion to elicit active participation, add a
  publication date and send email offering a deadline.

    -   Kris: we want this out ASAP; will target two weeks from today.

    -   Vittorio: important to have a broad set of eyes on this so it
  doesn’t seem like validation of just one view point

    -   Heather: regarding the 3pc mitigation table, we need help in
  columns B and C about where the mitigation might apply and
  what the limitations for that mitigation. I don’t want this to
  be its own how-to guide.

    -   Vittorio: that might be a disservice to the reader; these are
  low-level primitives and will need more technical guidance on
  how to use them in the federated context. It doesn’t have to
  be low-level click-by-click, but we can’t get away with just
  saying go read more.

    -   Kris: for the ones being worked on in the W3C, will ask the
  proponents for guidance on that technical guidance on how this
  should be used in our context.

    -   Vittorio: spoke with Kaustubha about federated identity; don’t
  think she’d be able to do that because she doesn’t entirely
  understand the details of federated identity. Agree that, as
  the proponents, they should be the gatekeeper as to whether
  we’re using the primitive correctly. Don’t think we can ask
  them to actually document how they’re stuff will solve our
  scenario.

    -   Kris: agree, but think they can and should provide more info.
  e.g., FPS started by saying just 5 domains, which won’t work
  for most use cases. Not sure where that stands now. We need
  their participation so we don’t assume what’s correct.

    -   Achim: Maybe get feedback from them if they have any intended
  use around identity scenarios. For example, Apple never
  intended Storage Access API to ever be used for identity
  flows.

    -   Kris: For FPS and CHIPS, did ping Kaustubha. Sent email to Tess
  and John (Apple) re: Login Status and Storage Access. Since
  Apple was able to join PATCG, hoping we’ll see them here soon.

    -   Heather: if needed, we can ask to be on the Privacy CG agenda
  and bring it up there.

    -   Kris: agree we need to give more information. Suggest we have
  links to specific working short docs for each how-to section

-   AOB



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Sander Engelberts (OCLC)

-   Kris Chapman (Co-chair, Salesforce)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0\|OKTA)

-   Michael Knowles (Google - Chrome)

-   Achim Schlosser (European netID Foundation)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)
