# FedID CG call (Pacific), 9 May 2022

-   Moderator: Kris Chapman

-   Scribe: Kris

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Kris volunteered to handle the notes since the group was small

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   Working session - [<u>draft report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

Since there were only the 4 of us, we had a very informal chat. Sam and
Kris talked about how to best incorporate the other related proposals
into the doc (ie, CHIPS, Storage Access, etc.) Sam’s feedback was that
the breakdown of the 4 potential scenarios in the “Understanding Basic
Federated Identity Flows” feels heavily influenced by FedCM, and he
suggested that it should be more inclusive of the other
initiatives/proposals. Kris talked about how FedCM being the main work
item with FedIDCG had influenced the text. Kris said she would discuss
it with Heather and Tim on how to balance FedIDCG work items with work
items that are currently with other groups. She’ll also take a swing at
making the options in the Flow section a bit more generalized, and then
revisit the options as part of the FedCM section to be more specific
about them in terms of FedCM.

Kris also mentioned that we’re trying to get the authors of the other
proposals to bless a description of their particular proposals. That
blessed description will likely be in the Primitive Use Cases table, but
it may be duplicated here as well. Sam said he thought some things were
missing from the “Other Initiatives” table, so he’s going to add them in
for consideration as well.

Kris mentioned that she had moved out the Threat Model section to
another doc for later use. One item to note with the Threat Model is
that the PATCG group is also developing a Threat Model as well. Kris is
going to reach out to Aram Zucker-Sharff about it, and see if he has any
ideas on how we might overlay threat models or any other possible
approaches for aligning the models.

We took a look at the Use Cases section, and the consensus was that it’s
looking pretty good. We also talked about the doc as a whole being
nearly ready for being published. Kris asked Matt and Peter if they had
any additional feedback that they wanted to share, and they both said
they didn’t have anything that they thought should be addressed/changed.
Matt also talked about still coming up to speed with all of this
identity work, and we also all talked about how useful that “new to the
topic” feedback is too. Sam also talked about how everyone in FedIDCG
brings something to the table with their own specialties and
backgrounds, but no-one is really a master of everything (since it’s
very complex) - and that makes this a useful learning environment for
everyone.

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce / Co-chair)

-   Sam Goto (Google / Chrome)

-   Peter Kotwicz (Google / Chrome)

-   Matt Liu (The Washington Post)
