# 14 January 2021 (Pacific)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Heather

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/359d1ef8-6918-4a5f-bc7a-3ec23366752b/20220214T170000</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/359d1ef8-6918-4a5f-bc7a-3ec23366752b/20220214T170000)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s) - Heather

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/) and the [<u>W3C Community Contributor License Agreement</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)


-   [<u>Draft Community Group Report</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D-UbhD7_d_X8h1_aEFV-nrlkMf2pQDTuf_s70ycYj20/edit#)

-   AOB

Notes
=====

-   Sam: invited Jeffrey and Chris to the call to help speak to the
 questions we raised last week on how Chrome does standards.
 Jeffrey is only available for the first 30 minutes, so can we move
 this topic first?

-   Heather: OK. We originally planned for this for the next Atlantic
 call when more of the people who had questions would attend, but
 we can do this now. My question on all of this is: are Google’s
 recent proposals going through something more like the QUIC
 process where Google developed and documented it, and then brought
 it to the standards process?

-   Jeffrey: QUIC went to the IETF when it was ready for the standards
 process; FedCM is earlier in the process and hasn’t been turned on
 for anything. It is likely that Chrome will ship something in this
 space, then take it to a working group, then iterate on it there.

-   Chris: since that time period when QUIC was introduced, we’ve tried
 to push an incubation methodology for Google’s work and others in
 standards. Shouldn’t drop a doc and expect to standardize what’s
 in it. We want to get work going in public where Google has a need
 and an idea, and there is room for innovation. Once the design
 doesn’t need the invention level of work, then it’s time to figure
 out how to move it into an official standards-track document.
 That’s often when we try to ship something. Google recognizes they
 are taking additional risk if they break things after shipping
 things, but they also recognize that shipping things is how they
 impact the world. If we were doing QUIC today, we would have
 approached at a much earlier stage, not after we’d incubated and
 documented the spec.

-   Kris: Having worked on other initiatives, I stumble into problems
 with the Privacy Sandbox proposals because of the relationships
 between them. FedCM will respond to a particular use case by
 saying “go see CHIPS” but it’s very difficult to actually see how
 all that ties together. We see very little coordination from the
 outside.

-   Chris: the question makes sense

-   Jeffrey: the Privacy Sandbox constellation is new and different from
 stuff done in the past. It’s stuff that interrelates, and we’ve
 decided on a timeline for 3pc blocking, which isn’t the whole
 effort but it’s the first step, and all the pieces have to work
 back from that timeline. There is internal agreement as to where
 different components fit, but I’m hearing that the internal
 agreement hasn’t made it to the outside. How much does the
 explainer cover?

-   Kris: it does a good job of streamlining the FedCM use cases that
 it’s addresses, but it’s the coordination past that where we need
 more info. I’ve talked to folks in different groups that say “3pc
 won’t happen on this timeline, so federated identity items can be
 pu shed out”. If there is any logic towards “everything is going
 to happen no matter what” that might help with focus.

-   Jeffrey: we have committed to some dates for the Privacy Sandbox
 effort
 ([<u>https://privacysandbox.com/timeline/</u>](https://privacysandbox.com/timeline/))

-   Vittorio: some of the things that Kris expressed about 3p cookie use
 cases that break when things go away and remediations that are
 available in other specs are addressed most directly in those
 other projects, but FedCM seems to be a bit more abstracted. If
 we’re talking about 3pc I wouldn’t worry as much about FedCM as I
 would about the other proposals which go straight to the cookie
 problem.

-   Jeffrey: the more general tracking protection, which includes link
 decoration protections, that has a less firm timeline.

-   Sam: from a timeline perspective, in the Privacy Sandbox timeline,
 it covers all those technologies, and those other tools do have a
 place for discussion in the Privacy CG

-   Vittorio: when we started the group, we tried to distinguish the
 place where things are discussed and to keep this community group
 focused on the 3pc problem. But if those tools are the ones where
 this is discussed, then we need to broaden scope

-   Heather: we have gone to the Privacy CG to try and figure out how
 their proposals will impact federated identity, but that CG and
 the spec authors aren’t willing to discuss the federated identity
 aspects of their proposals. For that, they tell us to go back to
 the fedidcg

-   Chris: the problem is super complex, and we can’t forcibly put
 everything in one place. Google has to work with the Privacy CG,
 but at the same time, am concerned that we can’t pull other people
 in to talk about their designs here in the fedidcg. We should be
 able to get more cross pollination going. With PrivacyCG, they are
 a very focused group focused on a single area. When it touches the
 federated identity design, we should be able to get those people
 to come here. Alternatively, we can ask the Privacy CG to expand
 their scope a little. The problems do have to be solved together.

-   Heather: Some people have said things like “link decoration is 100%
 bad and we need to get rid of it” without recognizing or agreeing
 with the issue that breaking link decoration will also break
 federated authentication protocols.

-   Sam: We have in the past brought in Kaustuba to talk about FPS and
 another to talk CHIPS

-   Jeffrey: I can bring in the link decoration work

-   Sam: We need more browser vendors here

-   Kris: everyone that has a proposal has been willing to talk about
 what they’re doing, it’s more a problem of who is coordinating
 their use cases. They say “here’s what FPS is doing” but we don’t
 have “this aspect we plan on tackling with this proposal.” I’m
 looking for Google to take direction or ownership, or to tell us
 to take ownership of that, to push the use cases fed id needs.

-   Jeffrey: what you said reminded me of how the FUGU project works.
 There are developers relations (dev-rel) people that own the use
 cases and they translate it into API design. A use case might span
 three separate APIs. That is lacking in the Privacy Sandbox space.

-   Sam: any remaining questions?

-   Heather: the timeline doesn’t actually show origin trials and other
 concrete activities for most projects

-   Chris: we have to guess how long incubating things will take in open
 community discussion. I do think we’ll continue to refine what’s
 on that timeline; it is a real calendar, but it’s also a crystal
 ball. We try not to forcibly align every standards stage with our
 shipping schedule. There are actually a relatively limited number
 of opportunities to actually ship implied in that calendar

-   Vittorio: a question we often ask Sam, when when the 3pc meet their
 demise, will sameSite=none stop working?

-   Chris: will have to ask a different Chrome person.

Draft CG Report

-   Kris: Thank you, Sam, for all the feedback! Haven’t gone through it
 yet. Note that one big change I did make, though, was to expand
 the pros and cons of all the possible solutions.

-   Sam: I’ll take another pass.

-   Kris: Brian May gave a lot of feedback today

-   Vittorio: not a big fan of glossaries. It doesn’t necessarily help
 to cut and paste snippets from different specifications because
 the definitions are in the context of the flow for that
 specification. “Credential” is an excellent example; definitions
 that are true in an absolute sense are too generic for what we
 need. But it would be useful for some use cases to pick the areas
 where we use those terms and do some transitive closure; principal
 is mentioned several times, do we go ahead and define that too?

-   Vittorio: having the sourcing helps, but it is a slippery slope. If
 you just look at the definitions there, they are formally correct
 but they don’t go into the detail we covered in some of our higher
 bandwidth conversations. And it can’t be, because you can’t
 include every context in every definition. I don’t want to see us
 lulled into a false sense of security that just because we have a
 definition list means we are all good.

-   Sam: if you come up with something most of us agree to, we’ll take
 it. We have a terminology section
 ([<u>https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/\#terminology</u>](https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#terminology))
 in our explainer, and would love to take this terminology section
 and reference it directly into our specs. I think it will be
 useful for me to describe things using someone else’s words. There
 is a massive amount of terminology in identity, but there’s also a
 massive amount of terminology in the browser space. We need to
 find convergence.

-   Kris: I take Vittorio’s point. This is going to be a very living
 thing and will be useful to documen tht eifferent usages if it
 becomes an accepted practice. It’s important to highligh the
 difference on how terms are used or we talk at talk purposes. It
 won’t entirely solve that problem, but it will help.

-   Vittorio: another thing I’m noticing is that we do a bit of mix and
 match from different specifications. Sometime that’s necessary
 (e.g., ID Token) but things like Identity Provider, Credentials,
 and Principals, those things might define or refer to definitions
 that aren’t the same. The definition of IdP in SAML reflects their
 web cases, but not be the general term we’re looking for. As a
 starting point, it’s better than nothing. If we point to specific
 specifications, we might import specific biases.

-   Heather: I almost certainly introduced some of that bias, because I
 know IdP and SP as SAML terms, whereas if you use OP and RP,
 that’s the equivalent in OAuth. That might not be correct, but
 that was how it was explained to me a million years ago

General Library of Useful Reading

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web
 Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference
 Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web
 Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and
 Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design
 Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)

-   [<u>Authentication vs Federation vs
 SSO</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/authentication-vs-federation-vs-sso-9586b06b1380)

-   [<u>Keeping Your APIs Secure for Multiple User
 Types</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/keeping-your-apis-secure-for-multiple-user-types-d5c627793c4c)

-   [<u>OAuth Security Workshop 2021 session on Identity Flows and
 Browsers</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2021/OSW2021-Identity_vs_Browser.pdf)

 

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Chris Wilson (Google)

-   Jeffrey Yasskin (Google Chrome)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0 \| Okta)

-   Kiran Gopinath (Mearca)

-   Sam Goto (Google Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Google Chrome)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, Co-chair)

-   Nicolás Peña Moreno (Google)

-   Bill Densmore (ITEGA.org)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft, Co-chair)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, Chair)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)
