# 12 November 2021 (Europe/Americas)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Sam, Kaan

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s)?

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

CG Scope and Purpose (Heather) 
------------------------------

-   [<u>Slides</u>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1K11eCWQkEGfk6pnnvvhwOE9s32xmklTFOpA2bsi3VXA/edit?usp=sharing)

Use Cases
---------

-   [<u>User Stories</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library)

    -   [<u>User Story: As a developer, I don't want to leave my app
  during federated authentication
  \#10</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/10)

    -   [<u>User Story: Sign up to RP using a one-tap widget
  \#12</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/12)

-   [<u>Protocol use
  cases</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/protocol-library)

Any Other Business
------------------

General Library of Useful Reading
=================================

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web
  Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference
  Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web
  Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and
  Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design
  Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)

-   [<u>Authentication vs Federation vs
  SSO</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/authentication-vs-federation-vs-sso-9586b06b1380)

-   [<u>Keeping Your APIs Secure for Multiple User
  Types</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/keeping-your-apis-secure-for-multiple-user-types-d5c627793c4c)

Minutes
=======

Heather: This is for participants in the CG, so you need to have joined.
Follow the CEPC. Let’s look at charter again then look at submitted user
stories. I have slides! We’re providing a forum to incubate features. We
aren’t the PCG - they are a partner. The privacy component is important
but not our only consideration. We have both short and long term goals.
Short term goal is 3p cookie phase out. Link decoration is important but
not most urgent. Trying to tag which of user stories are 3p cookie
related.

Heather: Many projects … tools in the toolbox. Not sure how to
develop/prioritize a workflow. But these are what I know about that will
likely interrelate. What’s missing?

\[silence\]

H: I want this CG to put together the story of how these play together.
Next steps: as user stories come in, highlight which depend on 3p
cookies. See if they’re solved by FedCM. Then: what other tools might
solve for them? Route feedback to right forum.

Vittorio: good to keep eye on things that could help. Should mostly
watch for things that might break. My highest priority is preventing
breakage. Is it worth tracking liaisons?

The other thing we need to focus on is liaisons? It’s worth having a
list of ppl watching.

H: If there are multiple ppl are looking at the same thing, we might
have a list of responsibilities defined(?)

Brian: What’s gonna break is a good one to track. Keeping an eye on what
mitigations can be also important. If we don’t have an effort to watch
what is going to be break, and also focal point who is going the main
point of contact. I’m more than happy to help identifying the cases to
be broken.

Igraber: There are three type of cookies

1.  IDP cookie

2.  Embedded service cookie

3.  Services in between

I wanna make sure, when we talk about 3pc, we’ll look 3p to browser.

Igraber: For the next meeting I can bring some notes (per the question
of George)

Kristen - Teams that are working on different proposal are not aware of
the each other and the use cases for the others. We don’t own the
cookies, so we can’t name them

Brian - We could have ppl raise on their hand, if they are working on a
case. I can bring some feedback

Beri - User journeys are very helpful for us to understand things that
are(will be) broken.

Kaan - Maybe we can test by using a diff browser of blocking ther
cookies.

Hirsch - There is a bit of getting started challenge. For some of the
complex application, it’s not know what is going to be broken. I agree
with you on testing. But we need to know what else will be broken after
that one is fixed.

George - It’s like a chicken and egg problem. How to test this in a
staging environment and ensure the impact will be similar in production.
Figuring out ahead of time won’t be trivial.

Kristen - We need to start documenting fragmentation of the browser, and
advocating for browser to adopt the proposal works on one.

H: Let’s look at the user cases documented:
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/10</u>](https://us02st1.zoom.us/web_client/5g6glw/html/externalLinkPage.html?ref=https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/10)
- reported by Hirsch

Hirsch - This is similar to one-tap where there is an iframe of “you
wanna sign in as”

I’m not familiar with the mobile implications.

Ig: If you can stay un the iframe the mobile app works, launch a new
browser outside of the app.. If you redirect to the mobile app it
doesn’t see if you ever logged in the browser since they are not
communicating. We are working on a new solution since Safari is a
blocking issue. Even the sec mechanism exist in the browsers, IDPs are
saying the customers you shouldn’t use it. On mobile, without iFrame
there is nothing else unless the mobile app will know what you are
trying to do.

Vit: it’s not in scope for the3pc part. Circum is in 3pc . The problem
in general embedding the app is a problem. The problem is just
practical, as a best practice for now we have been telling ppl not to
use it.

George: Theer are issue win the security side with that. It’s not a 3pc
problem specifically, it’s how we manage identities across domains.

H: I agree with documenting.

Beri: We are interested in story after 3pcd. We can mark some use cases
out of scope for the 3pcd

Hirsch - Are you signin in a different account/identitty then the one
you sign in (mobile app?)

Igraber: You never showna login screen. There are different between
IDPs, eg. Google is happy (work/home gmail may encounter issues)

Hirsh - Login hint should solve that.

Kristen - Between the Salesforce and other companies, it’s not always
the same account. It depends which part of Salesforce you are in

H: Please list What tools you think might be helpful

Beri: Talking about:
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/12</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/12)

THis is one-tap stroy we touched down earlier. Two main user journeys

1.  User is signed in with IDP

2.  User si not signed in with IDP

Brian - High level, primary differences

One tap is different from the sign in buttons. Be able to skip requiring
the user to a dedicated account mgmt page. Whole new user journey and UX

Ig: “Continue as Bob” it knew some info about Bob. Is your assumption
inside or outside of an iFrame?

George - There are 2 separate thing here. If there are multiple ppl
logged in browser - It will list multiple, which works today with 3pc.
This will stop working after 3pcd. If we want to keep this behaviour, we
want to identify.

Brian: The documentation can answer some questions since it’s huge
subject.

Vit: Transitive closure. Just pointing a blanket documentation may not
be helpful. That’ not the best result. We need collective amount of
brain to work together

Yigu - one tap will be broken after 3pcd. We are happy working with
Google Sign in team to find a way to keep one-tap after the 3pcd. We are
eager to learn more if the API will work.

Hirsh - How the tool is going to be used will be educational for all of
us

Kristen - There are proposal (e.g. Fenced Frame) can impact negatively
these things.

H: FedCM has gone thru a lot of development. Would it possible to have
dedicated FedCM session

Beri: Yes, I want to share sequencing

Use cases answering what

Hirsh q is answering How

We were thinking let’s talk about What first

H: We have talked about what so far.

Beri: we can definitely work on that.

Hirsh - One suggestion - I’l review the UJs. We should be very specific
about the concepts (i.e. token)

H: We want to increase the cadence of the calls. EU/Americas, every
Friday except the weeks when APAC calls.

There might be some calls cancelled due to the upcoming holiday season.

I’ll send an email about the cadence.



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Sam Weiler, W3C/MIT

-   Brian May (dstillery)

-   Beri Lee (Google)

-   Yi Gu (Google)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   Lee Graber (Tableau/Salesforce)

-   Allan Spiegel (Adobe)

-   Wendy Seltzer (W3C)

-   Kris Chapman (Co-chair, Salesforce)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0\|Okta)

-   George Fletcher (Yahoo Inc)

-   Hirsch Singhal (Microsoft Identity)

-   Kaan Icer (Google)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI International)

-   Janak Amarasena (WSO2)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google)

-   John Bradley (Yubico)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft)

-   David Waite
