# 25/26 October 2021 (APAC/Americas) - Notes

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Sam & Tim

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   Scribe volunteer(s)?

<!-- -->

-   Reminders:

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

CG Scope and Purpose (Heather) 
------------------------------

-   [<u>Slides</u>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1K11eCWQkEGfk6pnnvvhwOE9s32xmklTFOpA2bsi3VXA/edit?usp=sharing)

Heather: we’ve had ad hoc calls; useful, exploring use cases. I want to
refocus on what we’re doing here. I think it’s: constructing a toolbox
for the components of FedID - how to not reinvent tracking along with
FedID. I hope you’ve read the charter. Goals: incubating features,
taking privacy into consideration. Trying to understand functionality.
Focused on short term goals, esp. 3p cookie phase-out. Other changes
follow, as we have tools to play with. I wrote down tools in the
toolbox. \[see slide\]

FPS is in PCG, declaring lists of domains. Not perfect. Might avoid
interrupting users.

CHIPS is a follow-on, In WICG, not PCG.

Storage Acccess API: PCG

Login Status API

Federated Cred Man API (was WebID), likely coming here. Of all of these,
this is the one focused on 3P cookies going away.

Q for group: anything else missing from the list?

Kris: Trust tokens might be useful. Any entity makes claims, e.g. user
is authorized.
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/trust-tokens/

Dan Sinclair: fenced frames and network state partitioning.

Kris: isn’t FF more for advertising?

Dan: unsure.

Kris: WebAdv BG has a comprehensive list.

Heather: which of those impact this?

Kris: these are the most relevant.

Heather: one missing piece is … liken it to volcanos rising from ocean -
it’s not a single landmass. How pieces relate / are tied together. I
think this group will be looking at it from FedID perspective to solve
fed auth.

Likely an ongoing task to consider use cases. Want to look with an eye
to “what tools solve this”. We’ll have our own lens, routing feedback to
these other groups. We’ll prioritize user stories and use cases re: 3p
cookie going away. In @@, they’re still trying to decide what is
tracking.

Does this make sense?

Vittorio: I’m confused by latest turn of events - more of what we’re
doing is re: preserving… Rather than starting w/ tools designed for
something else, while they might be useful, start from what’s broken. Of
all scenarios we’ve discussed, some will break. Some tools useful - but
designed for another problem. Starting w/ tools seems backwards. More
efficient to go in other direction, starting with what broke?

Heather: makes sense. I want us to stay aware of the tools; won’t be
clear cut to start with breakage. Will be back-and-forth very fast. I
want to get to a protocol library issue list. These issues are tagged
“does this involve 3p cookies”, “link tagging”, etc. I’ll be asking the
group to help finish that tagging. We looked at this re:
sanctioned/unsanctioned tracking. We didn’t ask re: link decoration.
I’ve been asking if 3p cookies are required, most answers are “no”.

Virttorio: if not broken, great.

Heather: I think many will break when link decoration goes away, but not
3p cookies. We might predict which will break first.

Hirsch: @@ This is a repository of user stories we find compelling, so
people can make informed decisions re: link decoration.

Vittorio: I recently heard a desire to work with smaller scopes and
execute. To me, maybe acceptable to focus on 3p cookies, since we know
timeline. And can give practical advice. Until concrete proposals, maybe
more productive to give concrete guidance than to speculate on what link
decoration mitigation will looks like.

Heather: Hirsch said library of stories will be helpful over time -
something to come back to.

Kris: we’re assuming that there will be link decoration proposals. Some
browsers have already done work w/o a w3c spec. What do we do with
problems from undocumented changes?

Heather: where have you seen browsers working on this?

Kris: Safari and Brave. Not impacted FedID yet.

Heather: They’re doing work w/o a proposal - a heuristics route.

Hirsch: Safari is - a curated list.

Heather: that helps me. I’ll have this conversation again on the
atlantic-friendly call. I’ll reframe it.

**User Story and Protocol Updates**

Heather: user stories are more of the business cases, etc. Call for
submissions. Even just put in a title as a placeholder and we can then
discussion

Hirsch: Was going to add one for sign out, but not sure since its not
sign in

Heather: you should always have the ability to sign out

Vittorio: if the LOB app is designed to be used only by employees and
the auth is handled by the infra (SSO), you’re signed in already. Sign
out didn’t make sense because the user isn’t signed out from the domain
controller.

Hirsch: what about signing out of just one app/resource using a common
federated sign in (Uber, not email, etc). There is at least a user story
of clicking sign out and expecting to be signed out

Heather: capture that, it's a business user story. We’ve talked about it
from a protocol story

Heather: quick recap - protocol library contains two resources: issue
list, but also detailed docs for some of the flows. What specs, browser
features, etc…

Heather: some of the protocol issues are not yet tagged. Should they be?

Vittorio: yes

Vittorio: &lt;discussed issue \#19, see github comments&gt;

Hirsch: things that use form post shouldn’t be reliant on 3P cookies

Vittorio: issue \#13, some people still use, but dont’ think there is 3P
cookie impact

Vittorio: issue \#12 - second step of SSO

Hirsch: should only be broken under link decoration, however some
browsers may break this as part of the first phase of privacy changes

Vittorio: example?

Hirsch: chrome canary if you enable WebID

Vittorio: what triggers it?

Hirsch: observes certain OAuth parameters and pauses the network request
until user accepts prompt

Vittorio: still redirect and link decoration

Hirsch \#11 - redirect, no 3P cookies. Top level redirect, no XHR

Vittorio: \#6 no cookies. Code flow uses redirect

Vittorio: \#5 assume liftoff from nothing

Hirsch: redirect

Vittorio: \#4 redirect + link decoration

Vittorio: \#2 - ITP can change how you keep stuff or change access

Heather: Is this the difference between browser local storage and cookie
storage?

Vittorio: small difference, often they’re affected by the same thing.
But some like ITP affects storage. This doesn’t use link decoration

Hirsch: would the changes also affect iframes and XHR?

Heather: not sure yet

Hirsch / Vittorio: \#1 - local storage and decorated links

Hirsch: iframing of a login page?

Vittorio: in the future we might be able to do it because of fenced
frames?

Hirsch: I don’t leave the application, but still see a login page. User
enters credentials into iframe

Heather: next call 11/12 unless we want an ad-hoc call. Discuss in
Slack.

Use Cases
---------

-   [<u>User Stories</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library)

-   [<u>Protocol use cases</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/protocol-library)

Any Other Business
------------------

General Library of Useful Reading
=================================

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)

-   [<u>Authentication vs Federation vs SSO</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/authentication-vs-federation-vs-sso-9586b06b1380)

-   [<u>Keeping Your APIs Secure for Multiple User Types</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/keeping-your-apis-secure-for-multiple-user-types-d5c627793c4c)



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   dan sinclair (Google, Chrome)

-   Kris Chapman (Co-chair, Salesforce)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0 \| Okta)

-   Tim Cappalli (Co-chair, Microsoft Identity)

-   Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft, Identity)

-   Peter Kotwicz (Google, Chrome)

-   Hirsch Singhal (Microsoft)

-   Heather Flanagan (Chair, Spherical Cow Consulting)
