# 10 December 2021 (Atlantic)

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Peter KH

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

Administrivia
-------------

-   <u>Scribe volunteer(s): Peter</u>

-   <u>Reminders:</u>

    -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

    -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   Call attendance on 17 December? (poll)

Use Case Review
---------------

-   [<u>User Story: User administrating multiple services through a
  portal
  \#5</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/5)
  (Kris)

-   [<u>User Story: I want to sign out of all my apps immediately in the
  browser.
  \#9</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/9)
  (Hirsch)

Work Item Issues
----------------

-   Status of migrating repository to fedidcg (Tim)

-   [<u>.well-known</u>](https://github.com/wicg/fedcm/issues/160) (Sam
  Goto)

-   [<u>Mediation oriented API
  concerns</u>](https://github.com/WICG/FedCM/issues/82) (Sam Goto)

Any Other Business
------------------

-   Video posted yet from Browser vs Identity session from OSW? (Some
  videos are at
  [<u>https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC49TGnjbTmGEeuTAF7naMuQ</u>](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC49TGnjbTmGEeuTAF7naMuQ),
  but perhaps not this one?)

Notes
=====

Dec 10

Poll Dec 17 call. 73% not showing up.

Likely going to cancel the call

2 use cases we did not get to last time

Multiple services through portal (Issue 5 in use case library)

Hirsch: SIgn out of all the app immediately in the browser

Multiple services (Software As a Service) through portal (Issue 5 in use
case library)

Hirsch: I have iframed a lot of services that I have paid for as an
enterprise.

Sam: There is an assumption that all services are owned by the same
organization

Hirsch: Paid for the same organization

George Fletcher: “Owned” = “Purchased by”

-   Ex: E-commerce management service on portal page

-   Ex: Have social media manager and want to sign in to social media
  manager

-   Portal can assert an identity into each iframe

Vittorio: Example

Open wordpress.

Wordpress portal. List of extensions. Access point for multiple services

Akismet service which deals with comment spam. Have to buy subscription

Google Analytics

E-mails: Sendgrid

Twilio extension

Thinks that details are missing.

Thing he described is top page redirect.

Hirsch: Discuss sanctioned vs unsanctioned part

Tim Cappalli: DId you purchase plugin via wordpress or externally

Brian May: Concern of plugins which are not purchased

Heather: Used purchase. Some plugins were purchased outside of wordpress

Brian May: Wordpress is a sophisticated example

Likely examples where people pick up link and put them on master
document

Sam Goto: Is this a privacy breach of the behaviour of the
administrator. In the word press scenario, does wordpress author believe
that privacy is breached by plugins that they use or wordpress reader

Hirsch: This is about admin portal

Igraber: Are we talking about identity being an enterprise identity

Tim Cappalli: This could be either small business or marketing group

Igraber: Big company. Admin is sanctioning sharing identity.

Brian May: Spectrum of use cases. My administrator is granting
permission of my behalf for some widgets and I have added some widgets
on my own.

Igraber: I don’t know of any place where I can use enterprise identity
without admin granting permission

John Bradley: Example is Yubico account

Vittorio: There are examples where admin permission is not required

Brian May: Much more of an issue with a lot more people working from
Home

Peter Gietz: Depends on who is tracking what. Happens very often nodays.
If corporation owns identity, IDP is allowed to track. If it is outside
organization, the tracking might not be sanctioned.

Sam Goto: Does anyone know if this breaks when third party cookies go
away.

Lee graber: Maybe. Handwaving about how idenityt is exchanged with
components. If iframe redirects to IDP, you will have problems. If you
try to do communication with IDP outside of iframe, idenityt is passed
in iframe src URL, can probably avoid 3rd party cookie issues because
you are not redirecting inside of the iframe. Depends on whether you are
redirecting in iframe.

George Fletcher: Would break even in SAML initiated flow. If the iframe
does not allow cookies at all,you are sort of stuck. If I purchase all
of the services, and if I am asserting identity so that I can have
access to the services, then it is sanctioned tracking.

Brian May: Include in the use cases “Does it require 3rd party cookies
yes or no”

Lee graber: Sanctioned occured at the IDP in a lot of use cases.
Administrator or user said yes. Are we asking ID via protocol whether
relationship has been set up

2nd user story to discuss

Sign out of all

Hirsch: Occurs in a lot of places

General belief, depending on IDP that signout is a security feature.
When you sign out all traces of signing in is wiped out. This requires
cooperation from RPs.

Shared device. Whenever I end my shift I click sign out. Want to ensure
that when next person starts shift it shows up against a different
person’s identity.

Some applications have two implementations of this. Logout and signout.

Logout removes user from app only

Signout removes user from IDP

Focused on signout works because logout is internal to application.

Vittorio: This looks like sign out in other use cases

Lee graber: Can you explain sign out vs logout again? When you reopen
the app, will you automatically sign back in?

Hirsch: This is a valid scenario for applications which require a 3rd
party IDP provider. Don’t want to sign out of Facebook when signout of
Grubhub.

Microsoft when you sign out of an application you need to sign out of
browser entrirely

Account switching: SOme apps cannot handle multiple identities.

Hisrch: It is quite common for apps not to support multiple identities

Sam Goto: Ask clarification question. Other apps do not learn the apps
that you have signed into. Is this that you are also signing out of IDP.
Is this a standard? (OpenID Connect)

Vittorio: End 2 end scenario is described by OpenID connect. Can do
either frontchannel sign out or frontchannel sign out. Backchannel
signout is not often used nowadays because it requires RPs to be
stateful.

Lee Graber: Embedded components are using cookies to maintain session.
If the app clears all cookies, will it clear all cookies within domain?
Related to CHIPS. Unsure what Firefox does.

Hisrch: With CHIPS signout does not work because the keys are wrong

Sam Goto: Template suggestion. Can use cases include “What happens in
absense of 3rd party cookies”? Tell users you cannot use this browser?
Tell users that there are security issues with browser? Just don’t
logout user?

Hirsch: Will answer in github issue

Lee Graber: What happens: Everything stops working. Mostly problem on
iphones. End up in endless login loop. Cannot login to our app if third
party cookies are off. We maintain session info via identifier in
cookie. Logout case is moot because login case does not work.

Hirsch: Special case for people who only exist in iframes. In our cases,
you are not signed out after clicking signout. WHen people complain give
docs “Sign out does not work in that browser”

George Fletcher: Login flows are redirect based so for the most part
don’t run into cookie issues. Signout must use iframes per spec.

Brian Campbell: Agree with George. Breakage is silent, not giving RPs
opportunity to logout. When everything is done in an iframe, depends on
whether 3rd party cookies are blocked or partitioned. If partitioned,
things should continue to work but you will not have true single sign
on. Concerned that opt-in nature of things like CHIPS will break things
which would otherwise work.

Lee Graber: I don’t think that it will work even with CHIPS. If you have
CHIPS enabled, the toplevel page will do a full frame redirect to IPD.
Issue is that toplevel IPD frame sets cookie.

Allow redirects to IPD in iframe

Hirsch: Can’t tell that signout failed. Hope that signout succeeded. Can
return different HTTP status than 200. Would likely start showing some
type of error when user clicks “Sign out button”. Users are not blocked
from using application, but that users can keep using them after signing
out. Disagree with idea that third party cookies have gone away in a big
chunk of browser market.

Lee Graber: Firefox has not completely blocked 3rd party cookies

Brian May: What do apps do when they encounter Firefox or Safari

Hirsch: Docs implying that browser is not secure.

Lee Graber: What does Apple do who uses are app. On iphone, for mobile
app tell users to change setting on mobile app

Peter Gietz: This use case is one of the trickiest ones to find non-3p
cookie solution.

No comments on mediation oriented API in FedCM WICG.

-   Conversation around encrypting IDP tokens

-   Tension with tracking risk

-   If we can turn this into use case that may help

Hisrch: Would the use case be “As an IDP developer, I want to change the
tokens emitted by my platform” or “change the way that RPs request
tokens”

Sam Goto: Extensibility question. IDP, I want to make protocol better.
Narrow usecase. In which cases are JWTs not used? Want to figure out
cases where API is not expressive enough.

Vittorio: Problem is deeper. Dependency on protocol (OpenID). Larger
problem. Why is the browser trying to look into the tokens. The tokens
are not for the browser. Access tokens. The legitimate client is not
supposed to look inside the tokens. Kind of an existential threat to
some of the things that WebID does. Mostly about principal.

Chat:

lee graberToEveryone 11:24:55 AM

I believe most implementations will break. I don’t think most put the
JWT in the src url of the iframe

VittorioToEveryone 11:41:20 AM

this use case is logout, why is there a sign in thing?

so we switched to talking to 3PC impact in general?

Sam GotoToEveryone 11:42:56 AM

If your Sign-in is broken by third party cookies, I think it is worth
kicking off a new Use Case and describe that lee.

General Library of Useful Reading
=================================

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web
  Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference
  Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web
  Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and
  Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design
  Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)

-   [<u>Authentication vs Federation vs
  SSO</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/authentication-vs-federation-vs-sso-9586b06b1380)

-   [<u>Keeping Your APIs Secure for Multiple User
  Types</u>](https://medium.com/@robert.broeckelmann/keeping-your-apis-secure-for-multiple-user-types-d5c627793c4c)

-   Federated Credential Management Fed CM a k a WebID \[BlinkOn 15\]: [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1M1bBZvBJa-eUp9jmGWqxouyToSepmfKQ-7NfMe2bNe4/view), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9la0cBhVXac)

-   OAuth Security Workshop 2021 session on Identity Flows and
  Browsers: [slides](https://github.com/fedidcg/meetings/blob/main/2021/OSW2021-Identity_vs_Browser.pdf), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XJKwxj9hB2k)

  

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Ken Buchanan (Google)

-   Brian May (dstillery)

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0\|Okta)

-   Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)

-   Kaan Icer (Google)

-   Hirsch Singhal (Microsoft)

-   Lee Graber (Tableau/Salesforce)

-   Sam Goto (Google)

-   Christian Rakowski (TX Group / Goldbach Group)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   John Bradley (Yubico)

-   Brian Campbell (Ping)

-   Brian Daugherty (Google)

-   George Fletcher (Yahoo)

-   Bonnie Stefanick (groupm)

-   Christian Biesinger (Google)

-   Bjorn Hjelm (Verizon)

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI International)

-   Beri Lee (Google)

-   Wendell Baker (Yahoo)

-   Yi Gu
