FedID CG Telecon, 27/28 September 2021
===============================

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Hirsch Singhal

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Aug/0000.html)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)


Notes
=====

Heather Flanagan: Diving into our terminology again this week. Terminology document: [<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/wiki/Terminology</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/proposals/wiki/Terminology) 


Has more stuff in it for discussion purposes. From WebID proposal
mostly, likely to become a spec so good to pull from.

Sam Goto: Sanctioned tracking is novel - not fom WebID, defined somewhat
as the opposite of unsanctioned. So what is that?

HF: From [Unsanctioned Web
Tracking](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/), last
paragraph of first section. “However, tracking based upon standards
allows researchers, advocates and regulators to leverage their
visibility and use tools to identify and evaluate the privacy-sensitive
behavior of online tracking. This work is important input to making
tools that can help users manage their privacy appropriately.”

Tim Cappalli: Directed Identifiers. “Per Site” - what is that defined
as? FPS (First Party Set), browser bar domain?.

Sam: FPS. Do we want to bind FedID to FPS though? Might be good to
enable FedID without FPS.

Tim: What happens when IDP and RP are in same set?

Sam: that’s fine. Web ID specifically excludes intra-FPS sites from
detection/injection (e.g. from Tim: Xbox.com to login.live.com) FedID is
cross-site specifically.

Tim: Party definition could be updated, and how that relates to directed
identifiers.

Sam: Depends on definition of “Site” then.

Vittorio: Goal shouldn’t be contained in the Directed Identifiers
definition. Not the place to determine “why”. These terms
(directed/global/etc) have existing definitions in literature right?
Definition is operational, not heuristic of “generally have” and similar
phrases.

HF: Maybe add “Site” as terminology.

David Turner: It‘s unclear what “Sanctioned” means or how that works.

HF: Sanctioned is good, unsanctioned is bad.

David: Sanctioned by who? User?

HF: Governments too, user may not have say there about what gov says on
their behalf. For enterprise though, it’s the admin who defines it, not
the user.

David: Definition doesn’t indicate who’s saying it’s ok, which is
critical.

HF: Submit a GitHub issue if you have ideas here, to push group in a
direction.

Kris: Site v FPS. +1 need a different term from Site. FPS doesn’t
capture all of the ways Identity can occur on web. E.g. Salesforce: give
an admin single UX for that user inside Salesforce, but when Salesforce
product is used on a consumer website, permissions to salesforce.com
entity in 1p context shouldn’t take effect on the consumer site in 3p
context.

Hirsch: WebID does separate that context well with 3p vs 1p. But unsure
of Salesforce specifics.

Kris: Issue is that Salesforce-within-Consumer app needs to be 1p to
Nike, not to Salesforce. If we push people to go server-to-server, that
loses context that’s helpful o consumers.

Vittorio: Focus on functional spec here, not specific implementation
details. Transparency is good here when visiting a site, and the end of
the day implementation detail here is “does consumer app have the right
to collect this data about me”, not specifics of what domain is being
used here. You can go infinitely fractal here.

Kris: “3p” falls into two categories: those working for 1p, and those
acting for their own use as well. Maybe 1p can indicate which 3p
resources are on their behalf versus not. Pivoting on the identifiable
distinction of domain is coarse and doesn’t capture nuance. Need more
user information here.

Sam: CHIPS and partitioned storage might be helpful here.
[<u>WICG/CHIPS: A proposal for a cookie attribute to partition
cross-site cookies by top-level site
(github.com)</u>](https://github.com/WICG/CHIPS)

Allow partitioning of user data by top level site.

Kris: Looking at CHIPS. Fails to capture the intricacy of multi-company
conglomerates like Loreal - owns 30+ brands and domains, and CHIPS
causes information that needs to cross domains to be stuck in the
Salesforce-frame-inside-loreal.com. Leads to GDPR-type problems like
repeatedly asking if the user wants to be contacted because unable ot
remember across domains.

Sam: FPS should solve this since CHIPS can partition to 3p bottom frame
to top-level-FPS. So all Salesforce.com domains embedded in all Loreal
owned sites share one partition.

Kris: Issue is actually site size/cohesion - we don’t want all the
salesforce sites to be available in all loreal sites, so FPS to FPS
permissions are a problem here.

--- new topic: determining what is sanctioned using use cases---

HF: Hard to find the absolute edges of the problem space here. Adding
use cases in GitHub.

On guaranteed safe side is Issue \#3
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/3</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/3)

“Local service (RP that auths itself) can collect username and that’s
ok”. Model of how to figure these questions out: Context, expected
correct decision (sanctioned/unstanctioned), list of parties,
complications, evidence of it on the web, user story.

And then this EDU one is more difficult:
[<u>https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/issues/4)
- more parties, new screenshots, TBD “correct” outcome.

Vittorio: “Tracking is justified” in a certain case like Issue 3 is
insufficient. Do we need to explain what all “tracking” is ok and the
other issues of data protection?

Tim: Do we define what is tracking/needed tracking? E.g. lifecycle
management of the session.

Vittorio: Should an app need to explain what they want to use this data
for? EULA? Should our use cases need to do this? That seems like a lot
of detail to go into, too much detail. Instead provide link in use case
to a place where we describe better what “tracking” means.

This was for a different use case, but still relevant to use case issue
3.

HF: Use case in issue 3 isn’t even fedid - how much do we need to talk
about this?

Vittorio: CIAM flows from unauth-and-tracked to authed and tracked is a
continuum and common, so use cases may be one and the same just
separated in time.

Sam: Marking use case 3 as sanctioned seems incorrect due to transitive
dependencies.

User signs in with gmail email and local password to NY Times, reads
couch articles, goes to Amazon, gets ads for couches. That’s
unsanctioned tracking, because a directed identifier was shared from NY
Times about your history to advertisers, without consent. So use case 3
is unsanctioned because they used their email address to sign in which
can be abused by the RP.

HF: That’s the point of use cases, to determine a boundary of what is
sanctioned. Sam’s description is adding ANDs to the discussion, which
might make it another use case.

Hirsch: One of the things initially discussed when setting up the group
is the illegitimate uses of your data are not necessarily in scope.
Unless we want to start getting in the middle of that, there’s nothing
we can really do. It is not really in the charter.

HF: We are working to figure out how “things are meant to be” so we need
to decide on this question.

Kris: User consent matters here, the user can provide their email if
they want, e.g. to get a cheaper rate. Cannot forcibly prevent the user
from doing this. Our definition of “sanctioned” must have user consent
in it.

HF: Who owns the consent path - user agent, or RP? Enforces it?

Sam: Yes, consent is critical but consent needs to be proportional to
the privacy risk being taken by the user.

-- closing notes--

We have a protocol library: https://github.com/fedidcg/protocol-library

Please submit issues and comment on them in the FedID CG.

Next call is EMEA/Americas timezone in two weeks

General Library of Useful Reading
=================================

-   [<u>Unsanctioned Web Tracking</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/)

-   [<u>Tracking Preference Expression</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-dnt/)

-   [<u>W3C TAG Ethical Web Principles</u>](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)

-   [<u>Self-Review Questionnaire: Security and Privacy</u>](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/)

-   [<u>Web Platform Design Principles</u>](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/)



Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Hirsch Singhal (Microsoft)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity, co-chair)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce, Co-chair)

-   Sam Goto (Google)

-   Tony Nadalin

-   Michael Knowles (Google)

-   David Turner (FIDO Alliance)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (auth0 \| okta)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting, chair)

-   Bill Densmore (ITEGA)
