
FedID CG Telecon, 2 August 2021
===============================

-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe: Tim Cappalli

Call-in details: see
[https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Jul/0000.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/internal-fed-id/2021Jul/0000.html)

Charter:
[https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg<](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

{Heather} This will likely not be the standing time slot. Recurring time
to be discussed.

{Heather} Zoom chat is OK for today. Will want to shift to Slack moving
forward.

[<u>Chair Selection</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg/blob/main/Federated%20Identity%20Community%20Group%20Charter.md#chair-selection)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{Heather} Any objections to chair nominations

{George} How does this work?

{Heather} Charter says we will have 3 chairs with the caveat of no
over-representation. Important to have 3 based on the diverse interests
here. Chair needs to be explicit if speaking as a member of the group

{George} Is it normal W3C process to have co-chairs appointed rather
than voted on?

{Heather} Appointed was in the template. If more than 3, could put out a
formal ballot.

{Heather} Will assume the chair role unless there objections &lt;no
objections&gt;

{Heather} Short term problems that we want to address and some bigger
picture items. Re-evaluate charter after a year, as well as chair
role(s).

{Heather} Any objections to Tim being co-chair? &lt;no objections&gt;

-   [<u>Chair nomination - Heather Flanagan</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fed-id/2021Jul/0003.html)

-   [<u>Co-chair nomination - Tim Cappalli</u>](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-fed-id/2021Jul/0004.html)

[<u>Charter</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg/blob/main/Federated%20Identity%20Community%20Group%20Charter.md)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{Heather} CG was formed based on feedback from the workshop in May. At
the time, the death of 3P cookies was imminent. Response to this was the
short-term/immediate discussion area. Not the only thing. Link
decoration will also be on the list. Charter drilled down on the
features that are dealing with federated authentication and cookies.

{Andrew Hughes} Is there any reason that we wouldn’t just say “federated
authentication” instead of identity? General feeling is to avoid
“identity” in discussions as it's overloaded. Different definitions in
different standards bodies and causes confusion.

{Adrian Gropper} My interest is in authorization. How are we going to
consider the authorization protocol components, specifically moving from
OAuth to GNAP.

{Heather} Authorization will definitely need to feed into this at some
point, but not immediately.

{Vittorio} Identity statement may push us into philosophy territory.
Let’s cast a wider net than a smaller one. Let’s make sure federated
identity continues to work. If we limit to authentication, we may have
to cut something out of a scenario. GNAP is future looking. Scope is an
existing scenario. No one is going to be broken for GNAP.

{Andrew Hughes} (from chat) withdraws suggestion to replace “identity”
term from the charter.

{George Fletcher} Small tweak to charter. List OASIS and SSTC as orgs.

{Adrian Gropper} What about the W3C self-sovereign identity work?

{Heather} This CG is not about trying to fundamentally change the authN
and authZ models across the web. The current federation models will
exist for quite some time.

{Peter Gietz} Unclear from charter if SSI topics are fully out of scope,
but most probably when saying “fully-decentralized topologies” is out of
scope in the charter point to SSI being out of scope

{Vittorio} On the decentralized topics, hotly debated between myself and
Tim. Existing scenarios and goals are the focus. Many of the goals are
antithetical to decentralized goals. Scenarios are focused on
federation, acknowledge that some of the tools available in the
decentralized world might be valuable. Goal is to avoid scope creep.

{Tim} Was going to say toolbox,, ex: standardized identifier format like
a DID, that doesn’t necessarily have to be used for SSI.

{Tzviya} Line in the charter makes it a bit unclear around identifiers

{Heather} each proposal would have one or more champions who could speak
for it and present it back to the group. Each proposal would have an
issue on GitHub to track issues. After they’re proposed, we can
determine it is a work item that the group should take up. Very similar
to the Privacy CG structure. Any questions or concerns about this
proposal? &lt;no concerns&gt;

Administrivia
-------------

-   GitHub repository

-   Slack channel

-   Mailing lists

-   Call scheduling

{Tim} Can we have an org or single repo

{Wendy} Up to the community group. Does make things easier if people add
their GitHub username to their W3C account.

{Heather} Tim and I can work on creating the org.

{George} Any sort of proposal will likely be a combination of someone
highlighting a problem and someone proposing a solution. Just a
clarification.

Call Scheduling:

{Heather} representation from Asia-Pacific? Should we do split/rotating
calls or a single slot

{Heather} Bi-weekly will give more time to work on work items. Will send
out a doodle poll. Need to avoid a bunch of other calls.

{Wendy} Join link for the Slack CG org:
[<u>https://join.slack.com/t/w3ccommunity/shared\_invite/zt-tsegkiat-0jFvovmYG1KuK\_MbmKVNHA</u>](https://join.slack.com/t/w3ccommunity/shared_invite/zt-tsegkiat-0jFvovmYG1KuK_MbmKVNHA)

Call for [<u>Proposals</u>](https://github.com/hlflanagan/fedidcg/blob/gh-pages/Federated%20Identity%20Community%20Group%20Charter.md#deliverables)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{Heather} Use case documentation was happening in the OpenID Foundation
and IETF about how identity scenarios would work.

{Vittorio} Document in detail how key scenarios in identity federation
work. Special interest call at OpenID was where this discussion and work
was driven. They live under a GitHub under IETF notewell. They should
move to this group’s GitHub.

{Heather} It is designed as a library for persistent reference. People
who submitted PRs can resubmit to W3C repo

{Tim} We will clean up the template and remove the IETF specifics to
make it a simple markdown + GitHub pages deployment

{Achim Schlosser} Consolidate stuff from WebID repository and workshop
presentations

{Vittorio} The main goal of the initiative was to catalog all of the
instances where we rely on browser features (not just the ones that are
breaking).

{Sam Goto} WebID repo will be cleaned up as part of this and breaking
things up into smaller parts and bring it forward. Might be interesting
to slice and dice the why part. Privacy threat model is another piece to
discuss and anchor things.

{George Fletcher} The why is one of the goals of the use case docs. Some
of the identity why’s may be in conflict of the privacy why’s: are they
mutually exclusive, etc. We can solve how’s for particulate problem
spaces but may not be the desired long term goal.

Any Other Business
------------------

Queue - add yourself at the bottom
==================================

-   
-   

Attendees (sign yourself in):
=============================

-   Filip Skokan (Auth0)

-   Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)

-   Allan Spiegel (Adobe)

-   Wendy Seltzer (W3C)

-   Tzviya Siegman (Wiley)

-   Daniela Pöhn (Universität der Bundeswehr München)

-   Andrew Hughes

-   Peter Gietz (DAASI International )

-   Melanie Richards (Microsoft Edge)

-   George Fletcher (Verizon Media)

-   Janak Amarasena (WSO2)

-   Adrian Gropper (Patient Privacy Rights)

-   Achim Schlosser (EnID)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Auth0 \| Okta)

-   Adam Snook (OpenAthens \| Jisc)

-   Dick Hardt (Hellō)

-   Sam Goto (Google)

-   Abhinav Lee

-   Andi Hindle

-   Eddie Ding

-   Vittorio Bertola
